Website: Documents current state of OSPS baseline fulfilment (#3435)
openbao/openbao: website/content/community/policies/osps-baseline.mdx

Organization owners are managed through their GitHub Enterprise identities, and the responsible Linux Foundation bodies govern them.

## OSPS-AC-03.01 {#osps-ac-03-01}

> **Requirement:** When a direct commit is attempted on the project's primary branch, an enforcement mechanism MUST prevent the change from being applied.

OpenBao uses GitHub repository rulesets to protect all important project repositories. The rulsets in place do not allow direct pushes to to the default as well as `release/*` branches.

## OSPS-AC-03.02 {#osps-ac-03-02}

> **Requirement:** When an attempt is made to delete the project's primary branch, the version control system MUST treat this as a sensitive activity and require explicit confirmation of intent.

> OpenBao uses GitHub repository rulesets to protect all important project repositories. The rulesets in place do not allow force pushes to the default as well as `release/*` branches. In addition, the GitHub UI does not allow deleting the default branch.

Reviewer: Is it really just the UI?

The [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#issues) file includes a section on how to report issues, including defects. It provides guidance on submitting meaningful bug reports and explains the issue lifecycle.

## OSPS-GV-02.01 {#osps-gv-02-01}
> **Requirement:** While active, the project MUST have one or more mechanisms for public discussions about proposed changes and usage obstacles.

There are three main platforms that can be used to get in touch and participate in a public discussion.

> 1. GitHub issues can be filed by anyone who has a GitHub account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. GitHub issues and pull requests can be created and commented on by anyone with a GitHub account.
```

> 2. Zulip is open for registration. Check out the [contributing](https://openbao.org/community/contributing/) page of the documentation.

Reviewer 3: maybe
```suggestion
2. Zulip is free to use chat where we host dedicated (space/server?) for OpenBao community. Check out the [contributing](https://openbao.org/community/contributing/) page of the documentation.
```

> 2. General feedback to the maintainers (and everyone else subscribed) can be provided via openbao@lists.openssf.org mailing list.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. General feedback to the maintainers (and everyone else subscribed) can be provided via openbao@lists.openssf.org mailing list.
```

The source code is released under Mozilla Public License 2.0 (see [`LICENSE`](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/LICENSE)) which is approved by the [Open Source Initiative (OSI)](https://opensource.org/license/mpl-2-0) and meets the FSF Free Software Definition (see [Free Software Directory](https://directory.fsf.org/wiki/License:MPL-2.0)).

## OSPS-LE-02.02 {#osps-le-02-02}
> **Requirement:** While active, the license for the released software assets MUST meet the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.

> OpenBao is released under Mozilla Public License 2.0, which is [compatibile to GPLv3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#apache2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenBao is released under Mozilla Public License 2.0 (MPL-2.0), which is an [OSI-compliant license](https://opensource.org/licenses).
```

Author: I referenced the GNU project documentation (backed by the FSF), because it includes a tiny bit of context. 

However, we can reference the OSI additionally, no? (https://opensource.org/license/apache-2.0)

## OSPS-LE-02.02 {#osps-le-02-02}

> **Requirement:** While active, the license for the released software assets MUST meet the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.

OpenBao is released under Mozilla Public License 2.0, which is [compatible to GPLv3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#apache2) and considered an ["Approved License" by the open source initiative (OSI)](https://opensource.org/license/apache-2.0).

## OSPS-LE-03.01 {#osps-le-03-01}

> **Requirement:** *While active, the license for the source code MUST be maintained in the corresponding repository's LICENSE file, COPYING file, or LICENSE/ directory.*

The OpenBao license is stored in the repository's [LICENSE file](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/LICENSE).

## OSPS-LE-03.02 {#osps-le-03-02}

> **Requirement:** While active, the license for the released software assets MUST be included in the released source code, or in a LICENSE file, COPYING file, or LICENSE/ directory alongside the corresponding release assets.

> Every [OpenBao release on GitHub](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/releases) contains a source code ZIP file archive. This archive contains a snapshot of the source code at release time and therefore the corresponding LICENSE file.

Reviewer: Binary release artifact tarballs include the license, too. Could mention as a bonus.

Dependencies are tracked in language-specific files such as `go.mod` whenever possible.

## OSPS-QA-04.01 {#osps-qa-04-01}
> **Requirement:** While active, the project documentation MUST contain a list of any codebases that are considered subprojects or additional repositories.

> Additional repositories are listed in the [security-insights.yml](https://github.com/openbao/openbao/blob/main/.github/security-insights.yml) of the main project repository.

Reviewer 3: I don't know if we should have another specific file just for this, `security-insights` do not list:
https://github.com/openbao/dependency-vulnerabilities and https://github.com/openbao/openbao-snapshot-agent from the organization

Author: We should update the security-insights.yml, as we are required to keep all subprojects in there.

Author: I've created an issue and will start working on it: https://github.com/openbao/dev-wg/issues/66
